When getting started, it can be difficult to know where everything fits into
the bigger picture of creating fully decentralized applications.
To help get started, I'll walk you through an overview
of what a decentralized application could look like.
There's a lot of different ways to do this
depending on which tools you end up preferring.
What I'll show you here is just one way that you can do it that hopefully you're more
comfortable with by the end of the lesson. So, here it goes.
I've set up this graphic so that down the middle are different layers of the stack,
and along the sides are different tools you can use to help connect these layers.
Starting at the top is stuff you know already.
First, you'll need to build a website.
That website can be built using JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.
We'll be running all that using Node js.
With this front-end section,
you can really do whatever you like.
Front-end frameworks like React, Angular, Vue,
or sticking with Vanilla JavaScript is a totally fine way to build out your front-end.
The two pieces we're building in to make it adapt
is the Smart Contract and the Ethereum blockchain.
In this case, the blockchain is what stores the different states
that occur from the interactions users take with your applications.
The Smart Contract is the piece of code you write that determines
the logic or interactions that the users are allowed to take.
While writing your Smart Contract,
it's only a piece of code that the Ethereum blockchain has no idea exists.
That's why I have it here separated.
What's important to understand though is that to deploy your Smart Contract,
you're putting this code directly on
the blockchain and then it is part of the Ethereum environment.
Similar to how you can store information about transactions in a block,
you can also push pieces of code directly on the Ethereum blockchain.
Once that code is put on the blockchain,
it gets assigned a hash value and becomes a part
of the immutable set of records that make up the blockchain.
That's an important thing to note,
because it's a huge difference between
standard app development and decentralized app development.
In DApp development, once you push your code live,
it can't be changed.
You can't have the opportunity to fix bugs that come up or
change things based on how other people decide to use your code,
and a lot of people can use your code.
Actually, anyone who wants to can.
This code is part of the shared ledger that everyone can access,
so everyone can use it however they like.
So, say you wrote a Smart Contract to collect the pool of
money and give it out to one of your users as a prize.
Well, if you wrote it wrong,
someone else may come in and collect the money and give it to themselves instead,
that can happen and it has happened.
So, you have to be careful.
These are all major security concerns that you'll need
to keep in mind that we'll go over throughout the program.
Okay. So, that was a big side note but it's really important to understand.
Let's get back to the graphic.
One thing you'll notice is that the Smart Contract doesn't actually
touch Node js or the Ethereum blockchain in this graphic.
That's because Node js can't actually run the smart contract code.
It needs to be compiled and deployed using other tools.
In our case, you just used remixed to do this.
The smart contract sits and remix,
gets compiled by their interpreter,
and then can be deployed to the blockchain from there.
So, deploying the contract isn't directly tied to Node js,
but you can still bring your contracts into
your local environment and work with them from there.
This is how you can bridge the gap between the front and back-ends of your application,
and I'll show you more on how to do that later.
All right, we're almost there.
Let's go over the right side of this graphic.
Starting with Web3.
Web3 is the API you'll need to interact with the blockchain.
Everything that goes onto the Ethereum blockchain is done using a transaction.
These transactions are written in red using the Web3 library.
Think of it as your window to access the Ethereum network.
Using Web3, you have the ability to search the Ethereum blockchain,
but you don't actually have a connection to it yet.
You'll need to provide a connection using an endpoint URL.
There's a few ways to do this,
but in our case, we'll use Infura,
because it's a quick and powerful way to make this connection.
Finally, Metamask.
Metamask is the tool that you use to interact with any existing DApp.
It gives applications access to the funds you store on your wallet,
so that you can effectively make transactions on the network.
You'll see here that it's connected to both Web3 and Infura.
First, it's connected to Web3,
because to make this connection to the blockchain for its users,
it needs to read and write data to the Ethereum blockchain.
Remember, I mentioned Web3 is how you read and write data.
So, Metamask uses this to provide this functionality to its users.
Finally, Metamask also runs on Infura.
The tool we'll be using ourselves.
It uses this to bridge that final connection between Web3 and the Ethereum blockchain.
From there, the data can climb all the way back up the chain through and Infura,
Web3, and Metamask, again,
all the way to the website so you can display this to your users.
Okay. So, there's a full look at what the full stacked app could look like.
There's a lot of ways to do this,
and you'll learn more throughout the lesson.
Don't worry if this still feels a little foggy right now.
We'll be going into each of these tools in
a lot more detail as they become more relevant to the DApp you'll be creating.